# Role of Big Data in IoT :hand: fa18-523-71 fa18-523-59

| Uma Kota, Jatinkumar Bhutka
| umabkota@iu.edu, jdbhutka@iu.edu
| Indiana University Bloomington
| hid: fa18-523-71 fa18-523-59
| github: [:cloud:](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/fa18-523-71/edit/master/paper/paper.md)

* :o: review the rules of a and the some sentences miss them
* :o: figures need to be mentioned in text by number, see how we do that in the sample
* :o: if image is copied you need bibtex citation in caption
* :o: grammar errors
* :o: no contartions with `s
* :o: see the sample on how to do images and cite them within the paper, you need to look at epub

### Abstract

The Internet of things (IoT) is one of the most evolving technology
out there today and it is all about ubiquitous computing. Almost all
the industries today are using sensors to diagnose the performance of
their systems, this data is being used to understand the maintenance,
repair issues of machines and in bettering the output produced by
them. With the humungous growth of such systems not only in factories
and machinery but also in daily walks of life, the data generated is
growing exponentially. With such huge data handling, Big data
infrastructure plays a pivotal role in running and functioning of IoT.

---

Keywords: IoT, Big Data, Analytics, fa18-523-59 fa18-523-71

---

### Introduction

Internet has been around for a while, but it’s been mostly the product
of the people so all the things on the internet such as games, social
media, images, and movies all of that are created by people and for
the people and about the people. Internet is one of the most creative
and transformative things invented. It has changed the way humans go
about their lives a great deal. Its woven into the lives of all of us
in one or the other way. It is connecting people all around the globe.
There is this new emerging and it will change world again. The new
internet is not just connecting people, but it is about connecting
things. And hence, it is named Internet of Things (IoT).

Today’s bigdata world, Internet of things (IoT) is gaining more and
more attention. With increase in digital connection between the
physical objects and the internet, data generation rate has rapidly
increased in the past few years which has opened the doors for the
analysis of big data with the help of big data technologies. IoT
allows every device to connect to each other, with electronics
devices, software’s, and sensors which exchange continuous streams of
data without any human interaction on the IoT platform. These features
of IoT allow us to analyze collected data and use it for Business
Intelligence. Also, it can be useful to generate various models that
can improve daily routine experience of the users. By 2020, Gartner
has expected the IoT to connect over 20.4 billion things together
ranging from mobile devices, vehicles, robots, and various industrial
equipment’s [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-gartner].

The huge amount of data generated by the IoT platform is just not
enough to get going. It needs to be handled, processed, managed,
integrated, analyzed with big data technology available with us, in a
scalable, cost-effective way and more importantly in real time. Hence,
the digital world networks of physical object network and big data
technologies can collaboratively be used to achieve complex tasks in
the field of health care, manufacturing Industries, energy
conservation, home automation, transportation system, education and
research to improve quality of life.

### Architecture

The interaction between digital mediums require special architecture
and there are many architectures for IoT. The most common IoT
Ecosystem architecture is as shown in the figure 1. It consists of
seven different layers [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-architecture].

:o: no spaces in filenames

![:o: FIGURES NOT P{ROPWERLY CITED SEE SAMPLE](images/IoT%20Architecture.png)


- Physical Devices and controllers: The lowest layer of the Internet
  of Things (IoT) architecture is the physical devices and controllers
  which consists of electronic gadgets, sensors and activators which are
  used to take data input from various sources.

- Connectivity: The next layer we have in the Internet of Thing (IoT)
  architecture is the Connectivity layer which takes care of the
  communication between sensors and processing units that try converting
  the data into an understandable format with the help of certain
  protocol and perform selection on the data that is to be processed
  further into the IoT architecture creating thresholds for the incoming
  data.

- Edge computing: Edge Computing does the analysis of Data Elements
  and their transformation This is achieved by analyzing and filtering
  the data before it is processed further thereby reducing huge
  computing and networking costs. The incoming raw data from the sensors
  and activators can be selectively sent for further analysis. Also, one
  of the major concerns of Internet of Things (IoT) architecture which
  is Data Security. Edge computing overcomes this to a considerable
  extent by keeping some of the sensitive data into the sensor devices.
  Also, there are devices known as edge devices coming into existence
  which will help in the analytics and compute purposes delivering the
  data deliverables at a much faster speed in a robust manner. Not only
  this, but these edge devices will help in the connectivity with the
  connected devices at the source thereby allowing us to have a luxury
  of new smart devices.

- Data Accumulation: Data Accumulation is largely done in distributed
  frameworks as the incoming data is of huge volumes and variety and
  travelling at a great velocity. Data is distributed into small sets of
  data using the key/pair values just as in the case of data tuples,
  mapped and then reduced to small chunks of data before processing it
  further. Also, these days, organizations are trying to use PaaS
  (Platform as a Service) as a cloud platform for hosting data publicly
  and at the same time, securely, thus customizing it to their needs.

- Data Abstraction: Different translation rules are brought into place
  for the connectivity of specific devices. Also, a single model for
  data abstraction is created and provided to all the devices of a same
  service thereby achieving integration of various devices.

- Application: The Application layer consists of the reporting and
  analytics part of the architecture. All the efforts that were put into
  the data accumulation, abstraction, storage, transformation,
  cleansing, preparing smaller chunks will be benefited only if proper
  analytics is performed and strategic Business Intelligence reports are
  generated out of this data.

- Collaboration and processes: Collaboration and processes layer is
  the User Interface layer where the people i.e. the end users and the
  business processes come into picture. In the end, it is the customer
  for whom engages with the business processes and hence both are
  brought on the same page and hence the name Collaboration and
  processes layer.

### Big Data and IoT Together

Big Data analytics analyzes the data sourced from the Internet of
Things (IoT) which does nothing but gets multiple devices connected to
it. These devices can be sensors, activators, websites, social media
etc. Internet of Things (IoT) has had its advancements and
applications in the field of automobiles industries, healthcare,
transportation & logistics educational organizations, commercialized
residences etc. The incoming data from these domains is of the order
of billions of gigabytes per day and at the same time it is largely
diversified. Also, the velocity of the inward data flow is extremely
high. The Big Data platform then takes this data as the input and
stores it into files. Since the data is unstructured, the frameworks
used to store the data in the intermediate place are largely
distributed. Different big data tools used for storing this huge data
are Apache Hadoop, Apache Hive and many more. One of the prominent
ones used in the industry is the Hadoop Architecture which has Hadoop
Distributed File System and MapReduce as its two components to process
the data into small chunks further for the report generations and
analysis purpose. The data is in a way captured, integrated, mapped
into different data sets of tuples and then processed to the
warehouses for storage. The Data warehouses help store the legacy data
into them and allow generating reports on the desired data at any
given point in time[@ fa18-523-59-www-iot-bigdataanalytics].

![:o: FIGURES NOT P{ROPWERLY CITED SEE SAMPLE](images/IoT%20and%20big%20data%20platform.jpg)


Big data is nothing but analysis of some sort of unstructured or semi-structured data to draw Inferences and get insights as to how a particular business is trending. Billions of devices are expected to be connected to the internet and hence for the functionalities of these devices to be held, you need data.  IoT acts a major data source for the data that is to be analyzed by the companies. Where the big data and the IOT together come into picture when data from different connected devices is to be analyzed for decision making. The process of IoT with Big Data is as under [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-iotandbigdata].

![:o: FIGURES NOT P{ROPWERLY CITED SEE SAMPLE](images/IoT%20and%20Big%20data%20Analysis.jpg)


- Data, which is sourced from various connected devices or from
  disparate data repositories is collected and stored in some big data
  platform. Velocity, Volume and the Variety are the three factors on
  which the incoming data is largely dependent as this is the real-time
  data and hence the big data and IoT together is nothing but real-time
  processing of data.

- The big data system is often referred to as a distributed database
  as the incoming data is sourced from different data repositories and
  is then stored in the form of flat files in the Hadoop Distributed
  File System (HDFS) in case of a Hadoop big data platform. Another big
  component of the Hadoop platform is the Hadoop MapReduce which is used
  to process independent data chunks efficiently. The Hadoop MapReduce
  framework works on a MapReduce algorithm where data in the form of
  files is converted into a data set using key/value pairs just like the
  dictionaries and tuples. The output of a Map is then given as input to
  the Reduce stage where different data sets of tuples are converted
  into small chunks of data in order to be processed further.

- Reports are then generated from this data taking data from the
  concerned data warehouses using the Business Intelligence Report
  generation tools as per the client/user specifications. The same is
  accomplished through complex query writing into the databases. And
  hence it is the big data platform that paves way for this disparate
  data collected from different ‘collected devices’ using the Internet
  of Things (IoT) to be useful enough to derive different business
  trends and business insights.

### Impacts of IOT on Big data

The Internet of Things (IoT) has impacted the Big data platform a
great deal already and there is going to be a significant impact which
lies ahead as well. The only reason we say this is because of the huge
volumes of data that is brought in by the devices connected to the
Internet of Things (IoT). The fact of the matter is that there are
going to be more and more devices connected to the IoT invariably
making it difficult for the data collection and analytics platform to
effectively and efficiently keep producing results
[@fa18-523-59-www-iot-futureofiot],
[@fa18-523-59-www-iot-howbigdatapoweriot].

- Big Data Storage: With data being sourced from various disparate
  data sources and connected devices as is the case working with
  Internet of Things (IoT), the data storage platforms need to be very
  flexible as the incoming data is of the order of billions of
  terabytes. Also, the rate at which the data is input to the data
  storage platform is unlike the natural data speed. The incoming data
  with such great speed is hence balanced a great deal with the help of
  the three V’s (Velocity, Volume and Variety) stored in the big data
  platform. One of the main advantages the companies seek nowadays is
  hosting data in cloud systems so that the data is kept publicly secure
  and also as per the company requirements. PaaS (Platform as a Service)
  is one such model the companies are eyeing, to serve their purpose of
  effectively handling the continuous inward flow of diversified data
  and hosting them on cloud as PaaS provides this functionality.

- Big data Security:
  Major threats as far as big data security is concerned are to the
  Data Mining solutions as they provide the strategic solutions to the
  business. Hence it becomes increasingly  important to secure them
  against the security breaches caused by the fake users. There needs
  to be proper encryption of the authentication  measures of the
  users. Also, it can be resolved with the use of metadata (data about
  data) as to who accessed what type of data and so  on. The other
  prominent security issue with Big Data is of the distributed
  frameworks that are used for data storage purposes. Hadoop being one
  such open source big data platform where more systems can be prone to
  the security issues as the data processed is distributed over many
  distributed frameworks.

- Big data Analytics: The analytics of big data consists of a lot of
  challenges as the inward flow of data is quite unstructured as it is
  from various connected devices like the sensors and websites. Hence
  the big data consists of three V’s; Volume – huge volumes of data
  sourced from sensors is to be analyzed. Variety – Data is unstructured
  and is in the form of 3d data, 2d data, log files etc. Velocity – the
  speed with which the data is processed which is nothing but real-time
  processing and continuous data processing. Hence, we see data
  complexity in Big Data Analytics.

- Tools of big data:
  In order to draw effective insights and inferences from the data,
  proper big data tools need to be in place. If the analysis of data
  is not done in a proper manner, then the efforts   that are put into
  the collection of data from various data repositories and processing
  it through will be of no use. The commonly  used Big Data tools are
  Apace Hadoop, Apache Hive, Storm, Cloudera, Qubole etc. 

### Challenges

The major challenges associated with the IoT are the security concerns
with the increasing number of data sources & hence the distributed
frameworks that might be needed to handle such huge data, connectivity
related issues as the number of devices that are expected to be
connected to the IoT is huge, what business models need to be used,
compatibility issues because of the increasing technologies trying to
become the standard going forward which will in turn increase the
number of hardware and software devices being connected, reliability
of data and fast data growth as a result of increasing number of
connected devices [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-futureofiot],
[@fa18-523-59-www-iot-challenesofiot].

### Applications

The Internet of Things and Big Data are coming together plays and
important role in commercial, industrial and other applications to
offer better data sights and inferences. Some of the most common
application are shown in the figure [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-intro].

![:o: FIGURES NOT P{ROPWERLY CITED SEE SAMPLE](images/IoT%20application.png)

- Application in Manufacturing Industries:
  The machinery that is enabled with the Internet of Things (IoT)
  assist in transmitting operation related information to the managers
  which helps them identify the areas of   optimization and the
  process of automation. It is also used in facilitative management of
  machine tools expected to function in specified  ranges of
  temperature. Sensors enables by IoT can help monitor such machines
  sending alerts as soon as the sensor senses some  deviation from the
  original specifications. Operating the machinery in the specified
  specification range in turn increases the  efficiency of the
  operations, diminishes the downtime of the machines, helps reducing
  the costs and also helps in the conservation of the  energy. The
  other application of IoT in the manufacturing domain is the
  Production Flow monitoring where the production lines  monitoring is
  enabled from the refining to the packaging of the final products. If
  there is any discrepancy found in the  operations, then the IoT
  enabled monitoring of the processes helps in adjusting them and
  managing them better from the cost of operation point  of view, and
  avoiding wastes during the production process. Further, IoT helps in
  tracking and tracing the inventory across in  the delivering of
  products on a global basis which helps the managers getting a clear
  idea of the supply chain process. We can ensure  the safety of the
  workers in any given project by monitoring the performance
  indicators thereby reducing the injury rate and any  relevant loss
  to the organization. IoT significantly helps in the quality control
  over the life cycle of the manufacturing process
  [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-applicationbenefits].

- Application in Health care: The Internet of Things (IoT) has
  advanced its applications in the field of Healthcare a great deal
  right from monitoring remotely to getting accustomed to medication. It
  has served as a helping hand to the doctors with respect to living
  upto the expectations of the patients. The hospitals and started using
  Internet of Things (IoT) ensuring every patient gets the maximum
  benefits and stays healthier no matter how small the disease to be
  cured is. The IoT has guided the healthcare industry in improving the
  implementation of healthcare processes. Applications of IoT in various
  some of the healthcare areas is as under.

IoT for managing inventory: There is a considerable amount of change
in the way the hospitals have taken advantage of the IoT inventory
management for the inventory control in the warehouses and the
pharmacies.

IoT for optimization of healthcare workflow – Adoption of wireless
infrastructure have helped manage the throughput and perform an
analysis of the existence of bottlenecks, if any, in the system and
that we could get rid of the same.

IoT for integrating the medical devices – Different ways are being
looked at for integrating the devices like Fitbits with a view to
obtain more data about the patient and be taken care of. Neel Ganguly,
vice president and CIO at JFK Health System in Edison, New Jersey
mentioned of JFK Health System starting to use devices like blood
pressure cuffs, glucometers etc with the intention of collecting data
about the various signs of the patients which helped them serve the
patients in a more effective manner.

Just like IoT has security concerns in almost all of its extensive
applications, the healthcare industry is no different. But continuous
efforts are being made to get rid of the existing barriers as well as
the potential barriers. [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-iotinhealthcare]

:o: punctutaion

### Use cases
    
Now, IoT and Big data is everywhere. Due to the flexibility and
scalability nature of big data, industries in the recent times have
started adapting to the use of IoT. Some of the industrial use cases
include, 

- Caterpillar: An IoT pioneer – Caterpillar, one of the leading
  equipment makers is a perfect example of how it has reaped the
  benefits of using Internet of Things (IoT). They have eased out
  process of identification of levels of fuels for the personnel
  operating the machines and the timings of replacement of the air
  filters using the Internet of Things (IoT) along with Augmented
  Reality (AR) [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-usercasecaterpillar]. 

- IoT based Asset Tracking System in Transportation & Logistics –
  Number of assets were able to be tracked down by the existing tracking
  systems and the system use to breakdown  reaching its threshold
  after the number of assets tracked increased exponentially. Since
  the devices used for tracking were from diversified  manufacturers,
  it became increasingly difficult to analyze, draw inferences from
  the data and provide Business Intelligence  reports. The solution to
  this was Internet of Things (IoT) which helped built a server for
  processing robust messaging. Geo-fencing was  brought into
  implementation using IoT which would allow a trigger to be made on
  an asset entering or leaving a area. Also, an engine with respect to
  analytics was developed with a view to provide better data insights
  and meaningful Business Intelligence reports
  [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-industrialusecase].

- Smart metering using IoT – For measuring the consumption of gas,
  energy and water in buildings, a device capable of working with
  Internet called a smart meter is used. It has helped  overcome the
  disadvantages of measuring just the overall consumption by allowing
  to record the level of consumption of each of  the resources used
  thereby benefitting consumers monetary wise. In this way, Internet
  of Things (IoT) has helped improve the process  of forecasting and
  binding the consumption of power
  [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-industrialusecase]. 

- Predictive Maintenance using IoT – Millions of dollars can be saved
  by the companies by keeping the equipment’s and assets going all the
  time with the help of sensors and data analytics thereby preventive
  maintenance  [@fa18-523-59-www-iot-industrialusecase]. 

### Future of IoT and Big Data

With data coming from disparate data sources and diversified connected
devices, it has given the big data analysts option to distinguish and
filter data and just process the useful chunks of data further to the
data warehouses and then generate Business Intelligence reports from
there on. With the emergence of IoT, it has become increasingly
possible to reach out to the customers at any given time of the day.
Devices like Fitbits and smart devices have made it possible for the
doctors to get timely updates of the patient’s doing about his health
thereby allowing the physicists to intervene whenever needed and
provide mannerly treatment and diagnosis to their patients. Businesses
have been reaping the benefits of the advancement in technology by
having the luxury of digitally connecting to their clients even from
the most remote locations in the world. In the years to come, the
amalgam of the advancement in technology i.e. the Internet of Things,
big data will give more likelihood to the businessmen in gathering
even the most detailed information of their client and customers
thereby giving themselves a better opportunity to improve their
business from the perspective of effectively managing the monetary
department and providing a better customer satisfaction which will
invariably up their business a great deal
[@fa18-523-59-www-iot-futureofiot].

### Conclusion

With time and the advancements in the field of IoT and big data, we
have come to saying that they are nothing but two sides of the same
coin. Why we say so is because Big Data and its analytics is all about
data and this data is sourced from the many ‘connected devices’ that
are connected to the IoT. The data volumes are expected to increase as
and how the number of connected devices are to increase thus making
the all aspects of life more digital.
