# Role of Big Data in IoT :hand: fa18-523-71, fa18-523-59

| Uma Kota, Jatinkumar Bhutka
| umabkota@iu.edu, jdbhutka@iu.edu
| Indiana University Bloomington
| hid: fa18-523-71, fa18-523-59
| github: [:cloud:](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/fa18-523-71/edit/master/paper/paper.md)


### Abstract

The Internet of things (IoT) is one of the most evolving technology out there today and it is all about ubiquitous computing. Almost all the industries today are using sensors to diagnose the performance of their systems, this data is being used to understand the maintenance, repair issues of machines and in bettering the output produced by them. With the humungous growth of such systems not only in factories and machinery but also in daily walks of life, the data generated is growing exponentially. With such huge data handling, Big data infrastructure plays a pivotal role in running and functioning of IoT.


## Keywords

IoT, Big Data, Analytics.

### Introduction

Internet has been around for a while, but it is been mostly the product of the people so all the things on the internet such as games, social media, images, and movies all of that are created by people and for the people and about the people. Internet is one of the most creative and transformative things invented. It changed all of us lives. Its woven into the lives of all of us in one or another way. It is connecting people all around the globe. There is new internet is emerging and it will change world again. The new internet is not just connecting people but it’s about connecting things. It is named Internet of things (IoT).

Today’s bigdata world, Internet of things (IoT) is gaining more and more attention. With increase in digital connection between physical objects and internet, data generation rate is rapidly increased in past few years which opens the door for the analyses of big data with the help of big data technologies. IoT allows every device to connect with each other with electronics devices, software’s, and sensors which exchanges continues streams of data without any human interaction on the IoT platform. This features of IoT, allows us to analyze collected data and use it for business intelligence also it can be useful to generate various model that can improve daily routine experience of the users. By 2020, Gartner expected the IoT will connect over 20.4 billion things together ranging from mobile devices, Vehicles, robots, and various industrial equipment’s [:o:]

The huge amount of data generated by the IoT platform is not just enough it needs to handle, processed, manage, integrate, analyze with big data technology available with us in scalable, cost-effective way and more importantly in real time. Hence, the digital world networks of physical object network and big data technologies can collaboratively use to achieve complex task in the field of heath care, manufacturing Industries, energy conservation, home automation, transportation system, education and research to improve quality of life.


### Architecture


### Implementation


### Result


### Use cases


### Applications


### Future of IoT and Big Data 


### Conclusion 
